# Hourly
Originally intended as in-class project for timesheet and payroll management, the Hourly cloud service
is an API that is intended to serve calculations and machine-learning based predictions to the user that
aim to provide data that benefits cost-optimization, scheduling, and increased workload productivity of small
businesses.

# Getting Started

## Pre-requisites
To get this project up and running, you'll need to ensure the latest version of python3 and pip3 are up and running. From
the home directory, run pip3 install in preferably a virtualenv or globally to install each of the required dependencies.

Environment setup:

  - run ''pip install -e .''
  - run '''cd autogen/server/release'''
  - run '''pip install -e .'''

This will leverage setuptools to be able to utilize models generated by OpenAPI-Generator-CLI.

## Structure of the Cloud
This is a Flask application wrapped in a library called Connexion, which maps an OpenAPI 3.x spec to controllers
in the domains module. Each domain follows a routes/tests/services pattern with the model for that particular route being
at the base level directory. The controllers will route the data to the service layers specified in each domain,
which provides automated deserialization and validation of the data. Additionally, unit tests are provided in the
tests folder and should be updated each time a new route has been added. You may run a script to validate all tests
at once. Unit tests should be batch-run by this method before each deployment.

There are 2 AWS resources which are hosted on Amazon Web Services. They are:

  * hourly-cloudapi-prod (EBS application)
  * hourly-postgres-prod (PostgreSQL RDS instance)

### Deployment
Deployment is managed by AWS Elastic Beanstalk, which manages and procures the surrounding network infrastructure. 
You can deploy the hourly-cloudapi application to dev or prod thru the EB CLI by running:

```commandline
eb deploy
```

This will trigger the deploy.

## The Data Layer
By default, this package uses SQLAlchemy's Object-Relational-Mapping library. In the server folder,
you will find the connection string in a module named database.py. Simply change the connection string
to your preferred dev/prod connection string.

The data tables will be created for you upon first run and any required tables will be inserted. Each
model contains a Validation (or "schema") layer which serves to deserialize the data and validate it. If
a validation error occurs, a response is sent back to the user with the error that occurred.

### Entities
Below is a list of each entity that exists within the Hourly cloud as well as a brief description of its
function:

* Clockins: A representation of a block of time that an employee has worked.
* Companies: Groups of users that hold data that is unique to that group.
* Departments: Subsections of companies that divide users into a function
* Employees: Users that exist within the database.
* Packages: Templates for event types
* Events: Instantiations of packages that contain unique metadata

## Security
This project is built with security in mind from the API level up. Routes at the API level are protected
using a JWT token with the secret key found in the app.py file. The secret key should be rotated roughly
every 30-60 days.

The scope of accessible data is limited on a role-and-company based premise. Users of any role up to and including
organization owner will only be able to access data from within their company. Conversely, users with the administrator
role will be able to access ANY data from any company. Query limits are capped at 100 to protect data.

To mitigate network traffic and prevent potential Denial-of-Service or other malicious attacks, rate limiting techniques are introduced
to throttle frequency of user requests within a short timeframe. Should the user exceed the rate limit multiple times, their IP will
be added to a blacklist.

# Cross-Cutting
This directory contains general-purpose functionality for use across each domain.

## Exception Handling
This project utilizes Flask's error handling capabilities to streamline the process of handling various errors
within the application. Any exception that occurs within the application is returned to the user in
the response as a streamlined dict for ease of error-handling within the frontend.

Within the exception directory, there is an HourlyException class that you may raise. The constructor
takes the error code as an argument. You will find the mapping of error codes to error code metadata 
within the exception directory.

# TODO
* Add routes for payroll reporting*
* Add calculations for employee hours
* Add machine learning model to predict cost and expenses of an employee based on number of events serviced within the past month and the price per event
* Add events route
* Add checks for request size get_data() > 1000 as well as request flooding
* Event Schema:
  * name
  * start_date
  * end_date
  * employee_id (assigned/created by)
  * package_id
  * company_id
  * department_id
* Validations with flask-marshmallow - add "validation/schema" layer
* Security
  * JWT blacklist once user logs out? or session invalidation
* Companies Schema
  * Only ones affected are company manager and Employee - only see info about company
  * Only company managers can see event package edit, departments, etc.
  * Departments should have a company ID associated
  * Admin and developer see anything - special forms eventually to add to ANY company or view
  * Company manager has access to change clockin method per company
  * Validate each model as well as user's company, role and department in JWT
* Data Visualization
  * Utilize DevExpress Reactive Charts for Data Visualization
  * For scheduling, utilize DevExpress Reactive Scheduler
* rRule, exDate for recurrence rule and exception date for recurring events